310 - Feature Flags (#1284)
Synthetixio/SIPs: content/sips/sip-310.md

---
sip: 310
title: Feature Flags (V3)
network: Ethereum & Optimism
status: Draft
type: Governance
author: 'Sunny Vempati (@sunnyvempati), Noah Litvin (@noahlitvin)'
implementor: 'Sunny Vempati (@sunnyvempati)'
created: 2022-10-27
---

<!--You can leave these HTML comments in your merged SIP and delete the visible duplicate text guides, they will not appear and may be helpful to refer to if you edit it again. This is the suggested template for new SIPs. Note that an SIP number will be assigned by an editor. When opening a pull request to submit your SIP, please use an abbreviated title in the filename, `sip-draft_title_abbrev.md`. The title should be 44 characters or less.-->

## Simple Summary

<!--"If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough." Simply describe the outcome the proposed changes intends to achieve. This should be non-technical and accessible to a casual community member.-->

> This SIP proposes a generic system for managing address-specific usage of functions throughout the protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This SIP proposes a "feature flag" mechanism to only allow certain addresses access to parts of the protocol.
```

1. Overview
2. Rationale
3. Technical Specification
4. Test Cases
5. Configurable Values
-->

### Overview

<!--This is a high level overview of *how* the SIP will solve the problem. The overview should clearly describe how the new feature will be implemented.-->

Implementation involves the creation of a `FeatureFlagModule` in the core system and usage of this functionality in the `createPool()` and `registerMarket()` functions.

### Rationale

<!--This is where you explain the reasoning behind how you propose to solve the problem. Why did you propose to implement the change in this way, what were the considerations and trade-offs. The rationale fleshes out what motivated the design and why particular design decisions were made. It should describe alternate designs that were considered and related work. The rationale may also provide evidence of consensus within the community, and should discuss important objections or concerns raised during discussion.-->

To implement the ability for governance to control usage of the`createPool()` and `registerMarket()` functions, it is preferable to architect a generic solution, such that it could be reused for future features.

> Generally, this approach increases the agility of the protocol when deploying new features. Rather than requiring SIPs, code changes, and deployments, early usage of features in production can be controlled via SCCP.

Reviewer: nice

### Technical Specification

<!--The technical specification should outline the public API of the changes proposed. That is, changes to any of the interfaces Synthetix currently exposes or the creations of new ones.-->

The Feature Flag Module will implement the following interface:

```
interface IFeatureFlagModule {
    function setFeatureFlag(bytes32 feature, bool value) external;

    function addToFeatureFlag(bytes32 feature, address permissioned) external;

    function removeFromFeatureFlag(bytes32 feature, address permissioned) external;
}
```

> If a feature flag is set to `true`, only addresses added to the feature flag should be able to use the relevant function. Otherwise, any address can use it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a feature flag is set to `true`, it is "live" meaning only addresses added to the feature flag are able to use the relevant function.  You can turn off the feature flag entirely by setting it to `false` which allows any address access to the feature.
```
